[data/raw/dnd/Player's Handbook.pdf, page 136.0]
the hands of commoners. Martial weapons, including 
swords, axes, and polearms, require more specialized 
training to use effectively. Most warriors use martial 
weapons because these weapons put their fighting style 
and training to best use.
Proficiency with a weapon allows you to add your 
proficiency bonus to the attack roll for any attack you 
make with that weapon. If you make an attack roll using 
a weapon with which you lack proficiency, you do not 
add your proficiency bonus to the attack roll.
W eapon P roperties
Many weapons have special properties related to their use, 
as shown in the Weapons table.
Ammunition. You can use a weapon that has the 
ammunition property to make a ranged attack only if 
you have ammunition to fire from the weapon. Each 
time you attack with the weapon, you expend one piece 
of ammunition. Drawing the ammunition from a quiver, 
case, or other container is part of the attack. At the 
end of the battle, you can recover half your expended

[data/raw/dnd/Player's Handbook.pdf, page 136.0]
of ammunition. Drawing the ammunition from a quiver, 
case, or other container is part of the attack. At the 
end of the battle, you can recover half your expended 
ammunition by taking a minute to search the battlefield.
Your class grants proficiency in certain weapons, 
reflecting both the class's focus and the tools you are 
most likely to use. Whether you favor a longsword or 
a longbow, your weapon and your ability to wield it 
effectively can mean the difference between life and 
death while adventuring.
The Weapons table shows the most common weapons 
used in the worlds of D&D, their price and weight, 
the damage they deal when they hit, and any special 
properties they possess. Every weapon is classified 
as either melee or ranged. A melee weapon is used to 
attack a target within 5 feet of you, whereas a ranged 
weapon is used to attack a target at a distance.

[data/raw/dnd/Player's Handbook.pdf, page 64.0]
threat to your homeland, a thirst for revenge, or a need 
to prove yourself might all have been factors.
You might have enjoyed formal training in a noble’s 
army or in a local militia. Perhaps you trained in a war 
academy, learning strategy, tactics, and military history. 
Or you might be self-taught—unpolished but well tested. 
Did you take up the sword as a way to escape the limits 
of life on a farm, or are you following a proud family 
tradition? Where did you acquire your weapons and 
armor? They might have been military issue or family 
heirlooms, or perhaps you scrimped and saved for years
to buy them. Your armaments are now among your 
most important possessions—the only things that stand 
between you and death’s embrace.
Q u ick Build
You can make a fighter quickly by following these 
suggestions. First, make Strength or Dexterity your 
highest ability score, depending on whether you 
want to focus on melee weapons or on archery (or

[data/raw/dnd/Player's Handbook.pdf, page 137.0]
weapon, you can fire only one piece of ammunition 
from it when you use an action, bonus action, or reaction 
to fire it, regardless of the number of attacks you can 
normally make.
Range. A weapon that can be used to make a ranged 
attack has a range shown in parentheses after the 
ammunition or thrown property. The range lists two 
numbers. The first is the weapon’s normal range in feet, 
and the second indicates the weapon’s maximum range. 
When attacking a target beyond normal range, you have 
disadvantage on the attack roll. You can’t attack a target 
beyond the weapon’s long range.
Reach. This weapon adds 5 feet to your reach when 
you attack with it.
Special. A weapon with the special property has 
unusual rules governing its use, explained in the 
weapon’s description (see "Special Weapons" later in 
this section).
Thrown. If a weapon has the thrown property, you 
can throw the weapon to make a ranged attack. If the 
weapon is a melee weapon, you use the same ability