of ammunition. Drawing the ammunition from a quiver, 
case, or other container is part of the attack. At the 
end of the battle, you can recover half your expended 
ammunition by taking a minute to search the battlefield.
Your class grants proficiency in certain weapons, 
reflecting both the class's focus and the tools you are 
most likely to use. Whether you favor a longsword or 
a longbow, your weapon and your ability to wield it 
effectively can mean the difference between life and 
death while adventuring.
The Weapons table shows the most common weapons 
used in the worlds of D&D, their price and weight, 
the damage they deal when they hit, and any special 
properties they possess. Every weapon is classified 
as either melee or ranged. A melee weapon is used to 
attack a target within 5 feet of you, whereas a ranged 
weapon is used to attack a target at a distance.

the hands of commoners. Martial weapons, including 
swords, axes, and polearms, require more specialized 
training to use effectively. Most warriors use martial 
weapons because these weapons put their fighting style 
and training to best use.
Proficiency with a weapon allows you to add your 
proficiency bonus to the attack roll for any attack you 
make with that weapon. If you make an attack roll using 
a weapon with which you lack proficiency, you do not 
add your proficiency bonus to the attack roll.
W eapon P roperties
Many weapons have special properties related to their use, 
as shown in the Weapons table.
Ammunition. You can use a weapon that has the 
ammunition property to make a ranged attack only if 
you have ammunition to fire from the weapon. Each 
time you attack with the weapon, you expend one piece 
of ammunition. Drawing the ammunition from a quiver, 
case, or other container is part of the attack. At the 
end of the battle, you can recover half your expended

If you use a weapon that has the ammunition property 
to make a melee attack, you treat the weapon as an 
improvised weapon (see "Improvised Weapons" later in 
the section). A sling must be loaded to deal any damage 
when used in this way.
Finesse. When making an attack with a finesse 
weapon, you use your choice of your Strength or 
Dexterity modifier for the attack and damage rolls. You 
must use the same modifier for both rolls.
Heavy. Small creatures have disadvantage on attack 
rolls with heavy weapons. A heavy weapon’s size and 
bulk make it too large for a Small creature to use 
effectively.
Light. A light weapon is small and easy to handle, 
making it ideal for use when fighting with two weapons. 
See the rules for two-weapon fighting in chapter 9.
Loading. Because of the time required to load this 
weapon, you can fire only one piece of ammunition 
from it when you use an action, bonus action, or reaction 
to fire it, regardless of the number of attacks you can 
normally make.

this section).
Thrown. If a weapon has the thrown property, you 
can throw the weapon to make a ranged attack. If the 
weapon is a melee weapon, you use the same ability 
modifier for that attack roll and damage roll that you 
would use for a melee attack with the weapon. For 
example, if you throw a handaxe, you use your Strength, 
but if you throw a dagger, you can use either your 
Strength or your Dexterity, since the dagger has the 
finesse property.
Two-Handed. This weapon requires two hands to use.
Versatile. This weapon can be used with one or two 
hands. A damage value in parentheses appears with the 
property—the damage when the weapon is used with 
two hands to make a melee attack.
Improvised W eapons
Sometimes characters don’t have their weapons and 
have to attack with whatever is close at hand. An 
improvised weapon includes any object you can wield 
in one or two hands, such as broken glass, a table leg, a 
frying pan, a wagon wheel, or a dead goblin.